<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!-- We have to comment out the DTD to run, but use it to validate when editing -->
<!--
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
-->
<html>
 <head>
  <title>Using Data in Dryad</title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <div id="ds-body">
   <h1>Using Data in Dryad</h1>

   <h2>What kinds of data are there?</h2>

   <p>Dryad's primary goal is to make available for reuse data underlying
     publications from an ever-growing list of <a href="/partners">partner journals</a>. Content
     can be from any area of basic or applied biosciences.  Dryad currently
     has particularly strong coverage in the areas of evolutionary biology
     and ecology.</p>
   
   <p>Here are a few good examples:</p>
   <ul class="text-list">
     <li>Data from: <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.166">The Strength of Phenotypic Selection in Natural
      Populations</a>, the basis for a meta-analysis of many different
      studies of natural selection in the wild.</li>
     <li>Data from: <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.223">Two-phase increase in the maximum size of life on
      Earth over 3.5 billion years</a>, a list of the maximum recorded
      sizes of major animal lineages throughout the fossil record.</li>
   </ul>

   <h2>Do I have to pay for the data?</h2>
   <p>No. All data deposited to Dryad must be released under the <a
     href="http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">Creative Commons Zero waiver</a>,
    which releases all legal restrictions on reuse of the data. Scientific norms dictate that you
    properly cite data that you reuse (see below). </p>
   <p>There is some older data in Dryad which authors have released under an alternative license.
    For commercial uses of this content, please contact the corresponding author of each data
    file.</p>

   <h2>How do I cite data from Dryad?</h2>
   <p>When using data from Dryad, please cite the original article.</p>
   <blockquote>
    <div>Sidlauskas, B. 2007. Testing for unequal rates of morphological diversification in the
     absence of a detailed phylogeny: a case study from characiform fishes. Evolution 61:
     299–316.</div>
   </blockquote>
   <p>Additionally, please cite the <b>Dryad data package</b>. The citation should include the
    following elements: </p>
   <ol class="text-list">
    <li>Author(s)</li>
    <li>The article publication date</li>
    <li>The name of the data file, if applicable</li>
    <li>The title of the data package, which in Dryad is always &quot;Data from: [Article
     name]&quot;</li>
    <li>The name &quot;Dryad Digital Repository&quot;</li>
    <li>The data identifier (Digital Object Identifier, or DOI)</li>
   </ol>
   <div>For example: <blockquote>
     <div>Sidlauskas, B. 2007. Data from: Testing for unequal rates of morphological diversification
      in the absence of a detailed phylogeny: a case study from characiform fishes. Dryad Digital
      Repository. <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.20">doi:10.5061/dryad.20</a>
     </div>
    </blockquote>
   </div>
   <p>If you are using a large number of data sources, it may be appropriate to provide a list of
    referenced data packages, rather than citing each individually in the references section. This
    list of data packages can then be deposited in Dryad, so others who read your publication can
    locate all of the original data.</p>
   <div class="lastmodified">Last revised: 2011-1-28</div>
  </div>
 </body>
</html>
